---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/problems/26-remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/","tags":["Leetcode"]}
---

## Problem Description
Given an integer array `nums` sorted in **non-decreasing order**, remove the duplicates [**in-place**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm) such that each unique element appears only **once**. The **relative order** of the elements should be kept the **same**. Then return _the number of unique elements in_ `nums`.

Consider the number of unique elements of `nums` to be `k`, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:

- Change the array `nums` such that the first `k` elements of `nums` contain the unique elements in the order they were present in `nums` initially. The remaining elements of `nums` are not important as well as the size of `nums`.
- Return `k`.

**Custom Judge:**

The judge will test your solution with the following code:

int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}

If all assertions pass, then your solution will be **accepted**.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 104`
- `-100 <= nums[i] <= 100`
- `nums` is sorted in **non-decreasing** order.
## Examples
**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [1,1,2]
**Output:** 2, nums = [1,2,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4]
**Output:** 5, nums = [0,1,2,3,4,_,_,_,_,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
## Solutions
```C#
public class Solution {
    public int RemoveDuplicates(int[] nums) {
        int indexForNextUnique = 1;
        for(int i = 1; i < nums.Length; i++)
        {
            if(nums[i] != nums[i - 1])
            {
                nums[indexForNextUnique] = nums[i];
                indexForNextUnique++;
            }
        }
        return indexForNextUnique;
    }
}
```
## Explanation

Since the array is already ordered, I just need to iterate through it and check for when a value is different from the previous one to see when a duplicates chain ends and a new unique value is found.

`indexForUniqueValue` keeps track where should I put the next unique value and when I find one I will just need to put that value in this index and increment the index.

#### Complexity

| Time            | Space |
| --------------- | ----- |
| O(N) | O(1)  |

