---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/problems/66-plus-one/","tags":["#Array","#Math"]}
---

## Problem Description
You are given a **large integer** represented as an integer array `digits`, where each `digits[i]` is the `ith` digit of the integer. The digits are ordered from most significant to least significant in left-to-right order. The large integer does not contain any leading `0`'s.

Increment the large integer by one and return _the resulting array of digits_.
### Examples
**Example 1:**

**Input:** digits = [1,2,3]
**Output:** [1,2,4]
**Explanation:** The array represents the integer 123.
Incrementing by one gives 123 + 1 = 124.
Thus, the result should be [1,2,4].

**Example 2:**

**Input:** digits = [4,3,2,1]
**Output:** [4,3,2,2]
**Explanation:** The array represents the integer 4321.
Incrementing by one gives 4321 + 1 = 4322.
Thus, the result should be [4,3,2,2].

**Example 3:**

**Input:** digits = [9]
**Output:** [1,0]
**Explanation:** The array represents the integer 9.
Incrementing by one gives 9 + 1 = 10.
Thus, the result should be [1,0].
### Constraints
**Constraints:**

- `1 <= digits.length <= 100`
- `0 <= digits[i] <= 9`
- `digits` does not contain any leading `0`'s.
## Solutions
```csharp
public class Solution {
    public int[] PlusOne(int[] digits) {
        int i = digits.Length - 1;
        for(i = digits.Length - 1; i >= 0; i --)
        {
            // For regular numbers, simply increment the last digit and return the value
            if(digits[i] != 9)
            {
                digits[i] = digits[i]+1;
                return digits;
            }
            // For 9, transform them into 0 and iterate to the previous digit
            else
            {
                digits[i] = 0;
            }
        }
        //If the number exceeds the initial array size, create a new one
        if(i == -1)
        {
            int[] newArray = new int[digits.Length + 1];
            newArray[0] = 1;
            return newArray;
        }
        return digits;
    }
}
```
## Explanation
1. Iterate through the array of digits from the last item.
	1. If it's anything but a 9, simply increase that value and return the array.
	2. If it's 9, iterate to the previous digit and try to increase that one.
	3. Keep going until one number that is not 9 is found.
2. If no number that is not 9 is found, create a new array with one extra digit, and set the first one to 1. 
	1. Example: [9,9,9] will become [1,0,0,0]

#### Complexity

| Time            | Space |
| --------------- | ----- |
| O(N) | O(N)  |

